Hello, ForeFlight Team

My name is Liang Yu. I hold a M.S. in Computer Science from Northeastern University and B.S. in Mathematics from Nanchang University. After graudated from Northeatern university, I utilized my weekends to pursue my avaition dream at Horizon Aviation flight school and finally gained the private pilot license in June, 2015. 

I have rich experience in both software developing and testing. In the undergraduate college, even before Android and iOS phones have dominated the market, I developed an online shopping website for mobile phones with J2EE, MySQL and WAP protocol in 2009. In Northeathern, I continued to enrich my Computer Science knowledge by taking courses in Software Design and Operation System directions and gained the M.S. in late 2012.

Prior to joining Oracle, I finished a 8 months internship at Acme Packet and was a full-time software developer at ICS (Integrated Computer Solution, Inc). At Acme Packet, I gained valuable experience on web services development. I used Javascript to develop an Call-Transfer web service application with SOAP API and contributed to the automated testing framework, which was implemented with Python.

At Oracle, I am responsbile for enhancing the existed iOS/Linux apps to test new SDK features and writing scripts to test previous TSM SDK releases periodically. Currently, I am in the Agile team and test the new APIs for our Networking Products. 

In my spare time, I continued to learn new technology to stay current. I learned Swift and Adobe Illustrator CC and published my personal iOS App "HerBostonT" in the App Store. This Swift-based app can track the live locations of all MBTA vehicles and provide the schedule data for every stations/stops. Also, I explored the ADS-B technology with a Raspberry PI, which made ForeFlight an indeed powerful tool.

Attached are my resume and the screenshot of my App for your review. I am enthusiastic about the avitaion and I wish I can combine the work and hobby together. I look forward to meet with the Aviation geeks at ForeFlight. Thank you for your time and consideration. Relocation to Portland, ME is OK with me. 


Sincerely,
Liang YU

