
Java Software Engineer - Web Services - Sr. Level

Location San Antonio, Texas
Secondary Locations San Antonio,Texas;San Antonio,Texas;San Antonio,Texas;San Antonio,Texas;
Job ID R0052868
Date posted 09/30/2020
Purpose of Job
Java Software Engineer – Web Services – Sr. Level
We are currently seeking talented Java Software Engineers – Sr. Level for our San Antonio, TX facility. 

USAA Java Software Engineers - Web Services create and maintain APIs for our business software applications that our members use. Done well, many may never realize or appreciate how critical these APIs are or how we've made them simpler. Faster. Safer. Yet they help make our members' lives better. It's a great challenge and responsibility.

Here, you will invent. You'll design and test. You'll take risks. You'll create new technology, but the impact you'll make on our members will be far more significant.

As a Java Engineer - Web Services, you are expected to be able to function in a fast-paced environment driving innovation through rapid prototyping and iterative development ensuring quality is built into all solutions leveraging TDD. Your responsibilities will require you to be an expert in API development. You will lead teams of developers guiding on engineering and architecture best practices as well as demonstrate the ability to influence and engage with other engineers and architects. You will work closely with business clients and UI designers to analyze user requirements, design and code applications and customize and/or integrate commercial software packages for both internal employees and external member-facing applications across multiple platforms.

As a Java Engineer - Web Services, it will be your responsibility to maintain code integrity and quality as well as ensure application architecture is designed for performance and resiliency.
Job Requirements
ABOUT USAA

USAA knows what it means to serve. We facilitate the financial security of millions of U.S. military members and their families. This singular mission requires a dedication to innovative thinking at every level.

In each of the past five years, we've been a top-40 Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For®, and we've ranked among Victory Media's Top 10 Military Friendly® Employers 13 years straight. We embrace a robust veteran workforce and encourage veterans and veteran spouses to apply.

ABOUT USAA IT

Our most important qualification isn't technical, it's human. Here, we don't just sit in front of a screen. We stand behind our 11 million members who rely on us every day. 

We are over 3,000 employees strong, a passionately supportive and collaborative team built on Agile principles. We've been a top-two Computerworld 100 Best Places to Work in IT five years in a row and were recently named a Top 50 Employer for Minority Engineers & IT by Workforce Diversity Magazine.    

See what it's like to work for a company where your passion meets our purpose:

Click here to watch the USAA Java Software Engineer - Web Services Spotlight Video

USAA Information Technology: A Realistic Preview

This Job Posting is for multiple openings available in 2020.

PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES

Utilizing technical expertise; Creates system requirements, performs design and analysis, and coding and unit testing of complex to highly complex system functionality and/or defect correction across multiple platforms. Identifies ideas to improve system performance and impact availability. Resolves complex technical design issues.
Provides functional and/or technical guidance in evaluating applications systems or evaluating requests for proposals. Coordinates changes and influences and prioritizes tasks with business or technical departments.
Analyzes and influences technical, system, and/or user requirements. Identifies and creates solutions to improve system performance and availability. Facilitates root cause analysis of system issues to minimize impact and future occurrences.
Creates system documentation/play book(s) and serves as a lead technical reviewer and contributor in requirements, design and code reviews. Typically serves as a resource to the business.
Develops accurate estimates on work packages and ensures the accuracy of estimates developed by less experienced internal and third party team members. Analyzes and designs specifications for less experienced internal and third party team members to execute. Acts as a technical resource throughout the development life cycle. May also actively contribute to the technical and soft skills development of team members.
Assists team leads and management with delegation of technical work packages to cross-functional and third party team members for execution through the full development life cycle. Keeps management appropriately informed of progress and issues.
Coordinates system application transition from development teams to maintenance and production teams, and/or constructs and implements necessary controls to assure system/application traceability.
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS

Bachelor's degree in related field of study or 4 additional years of I/T experience beyond the minimum required in lieu of a degree.  
AND, 6+ years of software engineering/development experience utilizing Java with experience working with Web Services REST or SOAP
Demonstrated ability to independently research technical issues and generate creative/innovative solutions.
PREFERRED

4+ years in REST frameworks with focus on API development
2+ years in AGILE methodology (Scrum, Lean, SAFe, etc.)
2+ years experience with JavaScript
2+ years experience integrating with backend services like JMS, J2C, ORM frameworks (Hibernate, JPA, JDO, etc), JDBC.
Ability to design and implement container based APIs using container frameworks like OpenShift, Docker, or Kubernetes.
Relational Database design and optimization with Oracle DB2, MySQL, or PostgreSQL
Understanding of microservices architecture design and implementation
Working experience with Gradle, GIT, GitHUB, GITLab, etc. around continuous integration and continuous delivery infrastructure
Cloud infrastructure application development with vendors like AWS, Google or Microsoft.
Experience testing in REST services
Experience in design and develop automated tests and frameworks
DESIRED CHARACTERISTICS

USAA Java Engineers create innovative solutions that impact our members. Collectively, we are:

Curious and excited by new ideas 
Energized by a fast-paced environment
Able to understand and translate business needs into leading-edge technology 
Comfortable working as part of a connected team, but self-motivated 
Community-focused, dependable and committed 
Exceptionally detail-oriented
The above description reflects the details considered necessary to describe the principal functions of the job and should not be construed as a detailed description of all the work requirements that may be performed in the job.

At USAA our employees enjoy one of the best benefits packages in the business, including a flexible business casual or casual dress environment, comprehensive medical, dental and vision plans, along with wellness and wealth building programs.  Additionally, our career path planning and continuing education will assist you with your professional goals.

Relocation assistance is available for this position.

